.\" Manpage for metang.
.\" Contact lhearachel@proton.me to correct any errors or typos.
.TH METANG 1
.SH NAME
metang \- generate multi-purpose C headers for enumerators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B metang
[options]
[\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B metang
generates a customized C header of enumerated constants from a plain text file.
Each line of the input file is treated as another member of the enumeration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-append =\fIENTRY\fR
Append ENTRY after the input content.
\fB\-\-append\fR can be invoked multiple times; successive invocations will create a list of entries to be appended in full in the order in which they were specified.
For example, providing \fB\-a\fR \fIENTRY_0\fR \fB\-a\fR \fIENTRY_1\fR as options will result in the input content being generated, followed by \fIENTRY_0\fR as the next element of the enumeration thereafter, followed by \fIENTRY_1\fR.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prepend =\fIENTRY\fR
Prepend ENTRY before the input content.
\fB\-\-prepend\fR can be invoked multiple times; successive invocations will create a list of entries to be prepended in full in the order in which they were specified.
For example, providing \fB\-p\fR \fIENTRY_0\fR \fB\-p\fR \fIENTRY_1\fR as options will result in \fIENTRY_0\fR being the first element of the enumeration, followed by \fIENTRY_1\fR, followed by the input.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-start\-from =\fINUMBER\fR
Set the initial enumerator value to \fINUMBER\fR.
Successsive invocations choose the last-specified option's argument as the victor.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIFILE\fR
Write the generated content to \fIFILE\fR rather than standard output.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-leader =\fIPREFIX\fR
Use \fIPREFIX\fR as a prefix for generated symbols and preprocessor definitions.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-tag\-name =\fITAG\fR
Use \fITAG\fR as the base tag for the generated \fBenum\fR and lookup table.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-tag\-case =\fICASE\fR
Output the tags for the generated \fBenum\fR and lookup table in the given case.
Recognized options are \fBsnake\fR and \fBpascal\fR.
If not specified, then the program will behave as if \fB\-c\fR \fBsnake\fR was specified.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-preproc-guard =\fIGUARD\fR
Use \fIGUARD\fR as a prefix for conditional preprocessor directives.
If not specified, then the program will behave as if \fB\-G\fB \fBMETANG\fR was specified.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-bitmask
Generate symbols for a bitmask.
This option is incopatible with the \fB\-D\fR and \fB\-n\fR options.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-allow\-overrides
When specified, permit direct assignemnt of enumeration members to literal rvalues.
Direct assignment for a given input line is denoted with an equals sign (“=”) after the member name, followed by an integer literal.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display the program help text and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display the program version number and exit.
